---
title: Books in 2020
subtitle: List of books I read in 2020
description: List of books I read in 2020
featured_image: '/images/books/books-2020.jpg'
date: 2021-01-05
group: article
---
### Move to e-book
Earlier in 2020, I made a decision to read all books in digital format, which is Kindle for me. And I made it!!! I did quite a bit of highlights (in Kindle of course), which made writing my book review easier.


### Books in 2020
1.) March 2020 - **Awareness: Conversations with the Masters** by Anthony de Mello, SJ, J. Francis Stroud

A book talking about the importance of awareness. It's somewhat related to meditation as well. `What you are aware of you are in control; what you are not aware of is in control of you`.

2.) April 2020 - **Out of the Silence: After the Crash** by Eduardo Strauch, Mireya Soriano, Jennie Erikson

A personal story about 1972 Andes plane crash. How the team suffered through 72 days in a deadly cold weather without food. It was quite touching and unimaginable to think what human would do in such scenario.

3.) April 2020 - **Hacking Darwin: Genetic Engineering and teh Future of Humanity** by Jamie Metzl

Such an eye-opening book about genome editing. I was exposed to the possibilities of creating a `better` human thanks to this book. As I got so interested in this, I bought ARKG - a genome-related stock.

4.) June 2020: **Eat Pray Love** by Elizabeth Gilbert

A book read together with my other 2 friends. I rarely read this genre but it was really a good one, from the plot to language. So many good quotes in this. `The only unthinkable that leaving was staying`. `Prayer is a relationship; half the job is mine.`

5.) July 2020: **1Q84** by Haruki Murakami, Jay Rubin and Philip Gabriel

This book is really worth the hype. The plot is super engaging, which I really like. I don't like how naked and unnecessary the language is used when describing sex scenes (which are a lot of them).

6.) July 2020: **Mistakes were made (but not by me)** by Caroll Tavris, Elliot Aronson

Unfortunately I couldn't remember much. But here is a note that I highlighted: `Doubt is not the enemy of justice; overconfidence is`.

7.) Aug 2020: **The sales acceleration formula** by Mark Roberge
Interesting example of how a sales team can be run with a data-drive approach [Review](/books/the-sales-acceleration-formula-book-review)

8.) September 2020: **Moonwalking with Einstein: The Art and Science of Remembering Everything** by Joshua Foer

Interesting book about memory and how human can really re-define how much you can remember. [Review](/books/moonwalking-with-einstein-book-review)

9.) October 2020: **Barking Up the wrong tree** by Eric Barker

A great self-help book. What can help you succeed? `Pick the right pond. Find a job that leverages your intensifiers. Create a story thta keeps you going. Make little bets that expand your horizons. Use WOOP to turn your dreams into realities.` WOOP = wish, outcome, obstacle and plan

10.) Ocotober 2020: **The ride of a lifetime** by Bob Iger
It's a business book that teaches me beyond business. It's about how to think clearly, be resilient and treat people with sincere. I love that he gave anecdotes that make his points more relatable. [Review](/books/the-ride-of-a-lifetime-book-review)

11.) November 2020: **Promised Land** by Barack Obama (will be spilled over to 2021)

I'm still reading. This is a gonna be a long read.
